Hey!

I'm Anurag Ghosh, a 3rd Year Undergrad pursuing my B.Tech and MS in CSE in college and this article briefly summarizes my open source and specifically, my Google Summer of Code experience with Boost C++ Libraries. I'm (currently) involved in writing a new library from scratch which provided a higher level interface for document automation on both Windows and Linux and if it is accepted, would become a maintainer of the library.

I started with a serious outlook, pretty late, around March 6th, to work for Boost C++ Libraries. I always have been inclined to work in projects which involved me writing code in C or C++ as opposed to dynaically typed languages. Also, the allure of working for Boost, which is the world's leading open source C++ set of libraries (used by Google, Facebook themselves, while also steering the C++ standard through its libraries) drew me to look at their projects (after deliberation with a certain senior who motivated me, I had thought earlier that Boost's project are going to be very very tough for me). I found the document automation project pretty interesting and I made contact on the mailing list to which the probable mentor replied asking me to write a competency test. I wrote the competency test (which was a very small subset of the project), it was a fun week after all!

I kept making small small changes to the test I wrote, as guided by my probable mentor. Learnt about various C++ standards of coding (pretty informally though). Fast Forward to the start of the program, I was ahead of schedule as I had some of the components ready for Linux. My project proposal was rated as 'ambitious' (while I thought it was pretty legitimate) because of promising support for various platforms. I hadn't met the monster known as Win32 COM API's. I had to search numerous times for writing the implementation details of the wrapper (separate for 2 different operating systems and underlying API - Libre Office and MS Office), sometimes to learn various C++ paradigms taking help and reporting progress every couple of days from my mentor. It's been a hard 3 months of programming and building systems. That is how it should be, in my opinion.

I learnt so much about C++, Project Development, Testing and Documentation during these three months because of great support from the organisation and mentor. The experience in itself is worth more than the money I'm getting from the programme. I seriously love the fact that what I'm writing solves a real world problem for thousands of users who struggle with the lower level API for automating simple tasks (also, some medium/large corporations and academia). Library Writing is in itself an art, you need to design the interface, decide on the building blocks to keep and which ones to leave, the documentation and the guarentees and robustness that you provide assuming that what can break will break. Writing (exception-)safe code is not as easy as it seems. 

Contributing to Open Source Projects is very good learning experience and I would recommend anyone to work on something that they think would create a difference.

TL;DR: I wrote a wrapper for manipulating documents over platforms and compilers. 

Advice for you: Choose your target field, filter by language (however, don't make PL langauge the main criterion), read up about the organisations. Contact your organisation (and seniors who may have contributed there), keep in touch, make small progresses all the time (even editing documentation helps!), take a project which seems challenging (as opposed to something you feel is easy), do it well.
